---
id: overview
title: Overview
sidebar_label: Overview
---

# Mastermind Game Documentation

## Overview

Welcome to the **Mastermind Game Documentation** for our "Bulls and Cows"-inspired guessing game, **Mastermind**. This API allows developers to integrate a classic code-breaking game into their applications, enabling users to engage in a fun and challenging experience.

### What is Mastermind?

[Mastermind](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mastermind_(board_game)>) is a strategic code-breaking game designed for two players. Inspired by the pencil game [Bulls and Cows](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bulls_and_cows), Mastermind challenges the codebreaker to deduce a secret code chosen by the codemaker within a limited number of attempts.

### How It Works

- **Codemaker**: Selects a secret sequence of numbers. Depending on the game's difficulty level, the sequence can be 4 or 6 digits long. Each digit ranges from 0 to 6, and duplicates are allowed. Currently, this sequence is generated by our endpoint using a third party API or an internal function.
- **Codebreaker**: Attempts to guess the secret sequence within **10 attempts**. After each guess, the codemaker provides feedback in terms of:
  - **Correct Positions (Bulls)**: Indicates how many digits are both correct and in the correct position.
  - **Correct Numbers (Cows)**: Indicates how many digits are correct but in the wrong position.

**Example Scenario:**

- **Secret Sequence**: `012345`
- **Codebreaker's Guess**: `021367`

  **Feedback**:

  - `2 Correct Positions`: Digits `0` and `3` are correctly placed.
  - `2 Correct Numbers`: Digits `2` and `1` are present in the secret sequence but misplaced.
  - Digits `6` and `7` are not in the secret sequence.

The challenge lies in deducing which digits are correct and their respective positions based on the feedback, without revealing which specific digits are correct.

### Purpose of This Documentation

This document provides a comprehensive guide to the **Mastermind Game**, detailing its design, functionalities, testing strategies, and architectural insights. Whether you're a developer looking to integrate the game into your platform or seeking to understand its inner workings, this documentation serves as your primary resource.

### Key Features of the Mastermind Game

- **Start a New Game**: Initialize a new game session and receive a unique `game_id` to track the game state.
- **Submit Guesses**: Allow users to submit their guesses and receive real-time feedback on their attempts.
- **Track Game State**: Maintain the current state of the game, including the secret sequence, number of attempts left, and game status.

### Who Should Use This API?

- **Developers**: Integrate the Mastermind game into web or mobile applications.
- **Educators**: Utilize the game as a tool for teaching logic and problem-solving.
- **Game Enthusiasts**: Customize and extend the game experience for users.

### Getting Started

To begin using the Mastermind Game, navigate through the sections below, which cover API endpoints, testing procedures, architectural details, and future enhancements. Each section is designed to provide clear information to facilitate a unique and easy integration and effective usage.

---

## Table of Contents

- [API Design](/docs/api-design/index.md)
  - [Endpoint](/docs/api-design/start_game-endpoint.md): [/start](/docs/api-design/start_game-endpoint.md)
  - [Endpoint](/docs/api-design/make_guess-endpoint.md): [/guess](/docs/api-design/make_guess-endpoint.md)
- [Testing](/docs/tests/index.md)
  - [Test Cases for `get_hint`](/docs/tests/get_hint-test.md)
  - [Integration Tests for `Mastermind API`](/docs/tests/api-tests.md)
- [Architecture and Design Details](/docs/mastermind-docs/index.md)
  - [Mastermind Design](/docs/mastermind-docs/mastermind-design.md)
  - [Future Improvements](/docs/mastermind-docs/future-improvements.md)
